Final Project Milestone 1 Help Log:

Wednesday:
Q: Getting FBM to have good peeks
A: Don’t need to alter the actual FBM function but try changing the height of the max peek and 

Q: How is chunking more efficient when I still have 4 for loops?
A: It’s not, it’s more efficient when rendering not when writing out the actual code

Q: Generating new terrain, need to match height? If so how?
Can I automatically have new terrain become a new biome?
A: FBM is a continuous function so adding new terrain should start at x and z values where the previous terrain left off

Thursday:
Q: Is it ok to have a setBlockAt function in both the chunk class and the terrain class?
A: Yes, just need to make sure they are "synced" i.e. chunk's function should call the terrain's function

Q: Ray march set up—using vec3’s and for loop to go through each direction, need to find smallest tnear out of closest blocks…but how am I getting the closest books to test against them? Is that where setting min & max comes in?
A: Code I had was not for ray-marching but for ray cube intersection. I was confused and thinking that they're the same thing. I re-implemented the function with ray-marching and got it to work.

https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qwidget.html#mousePressEvent

Saturday:
Q: Getting ray marching to work — delete block. How to set max length and how to get rid of crashing
A: Needed to multiple my step by look vector and set my origin position to be the camera’s eye

Resources:
GitHub Resource: https://innerjoiner.com/guide/git-team-workflow-cheatsheet/



Final Project Milestone 2 Help Log:

Friday:
Q: Rounding bottom of river
A: Use radius to loop through every direction of cube. If the given block is within the radius then set it to water

Saturday:
Q: How to get drawRules map to compile?
A: Needed to put River:: in front of rule definition and when calling functions

Q: Getting stack to work—>Turtle construction error
A: Need copy constructor in Turtle class

Q: What does the look vector in Turtle do? Do I need both that and an angle? How do I set look initially? 
A: Don’t necessarily need both. Look vector gives x and z orientation at the current position. Multiply look by position to get current vector. I can initially set them to whatever I want.

Q: How to test what I have so far? Do I need to merge first? Or do rasterizer thing, if rasterizer pls help me set up rasterizer?
A: Either one will work, may be easier to merge since rasterizer only tests drawing functions, not carving.

Sunday:
Q: Carving out terrain, how to get perpendicular vector etc?
A: A simpler way to get perpendicular is to just rotate by 90 degrees

Q: Getting river to draw — how to call my draw functions, check expand string
A: Need to have an instance of river (this->*r)();

Tuesday:
Q: Getting carveTerrain function to work/do anything
A: Didn’t really get an answer

Resourcs:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/bresenhams-line-generation-algorithm/



Final Project Milestone 3 Help Log:

Tuesday:
Q: How to approach biomes
A: Get noise functions for each biome, use temperature and bumpiness to determine which biome I’m in at a given position, then use weights to combine the height values from each biome to get the height at the current position.

Wednesday:
Q: Can’t get smooth step function to work in my desert noise function
A: needed 0.45f not 0.45

Q: Getting noise1D in fbm.cpp to compile
A: —ask Adam

Q: Getting the weights for each biome
A: Need to put currPos values within bounds of 0 and 1

Thursday:
Q: How to interpolate properly? How to get currPos between 0 and 1?
A: Need to include 2nd closest Worley point and interpolate between the closest and 2nd closest

Q: How to set up temp and moisture to separate biomes properly?
A: Can use Worley noise but want to use same Worley noise for both, just manipulate final value for one

Friday:
Q: Getting terrain heights to look correct and transition correctly
-Interpolation, check inputs to mbNoise
A: Simpler interpolation function Adam gave me

Saturday:
Q: Fixing interpolation, getting mb values to work, check interpolation
A: Needed to switch back to using fbm functions for moisture and bumpiness and multiply the input values by a very small scale value to make the output less noisy

Resources:
http://parzivail.com/procedural-terrain-generaion/
https://glm.g-truc.net/0.9.4/api/a00129.html#ga3f64b3986efe205cf30300700667e761